Gwenevere Abriel: Jay,
Gwenevere Abriel: Justin is his real name.
Jay: Morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, you made it.
Jay: Everybody's blowing me up now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh really,
Jay: Seems like every time I come to group. People want to start calling me and messaging me
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there a way. So what, here's what will happen, typically
Gwenevere Abriel: Your sometimes what happens is the audio in here will turn off or the video will turn off if people try to reach you. Can you put your phone on Do Not Disturb because it'll, it'll throw everything off.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you know how to do that. I always forget how to do it, personally, but I know I like it when I do remember
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool.
Jay: I might have to get up and start hitting the work in about 15 minutes, is that cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is absolutely not. So, this will be a no show
Jay: This will be a no show
Jay: I'll still be on the phone with you.
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Jay,
Gwenevere Abriel: This is therapy. This is not checking this is not, this is not
Gwenevere Abriel: This is sit down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a look at what's going on that has kept the addictive behavior moving forward. This is not counseling. This is not a woman who's going to tell you how to live your life. This is therapy can't do it on the fly. Can't do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is, this may not be what you were expecting. This is actual therapy through tele health and it can happen. You can get somewhere else, you can feel something different, you're thinking can change, but you're going to have to be present for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It may not be what you were thinking, maybe it was you were thinking, maybe it was just check in with another person. I could see your texts. You were like confused about what was going on. This is therapy.
Jay: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Different really different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you've been in in programs before so I know you know the idea where you sit with someone you talk
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe even have experiential exercises and I don't know what interventions and techniques you you've been offered, but I'm excited. This
Gwenevere Abriel: This program. I've been able to do. I mean, it's hard. I can't do too much because you aren't like right here. I can't do some of my, my little things that I have you guys hold in your hands. I can't do that. But I can do a lot of the techniques.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does require undivided attention. We can't have it divided attention. We're going to all both of us do a crummy job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what's it like to hear that you're actually going to be getting therapy.
Jay: I don't know that I've ever had it before.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay. Okay. Cool. Well, this is, this is going to be exciting them. So one of the first things is understanding the difference
Gwenevere Abriel: So I've been doing this for over 20 years and
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of people think, oh yeah, I got a counselor and they're telling me to do this and telling me to do that. I can't tell you how to live your life I want
Gwenevere Abriel: It's none of my business. All I can do is I can share some ideas. We can do some experiential exercises. But ultimately, it's going to come down to
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether you want to do behavioral experiments to see if you like, who you are better if you feel proud of yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: If relationships start to improve if communication starts to improve if you kind of like who you are in the moments of your day.
Gwenevere Abriel: If once you were having intruding thoughts from the past that you didn't like. And maybe you were angry or maybe it seemed like you were too angry over little things, and all of a sudden you're like, Wait a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's nothing but a thing. And I'm not upset. Maybe this therapy thing. Maybe it's got some validity. That's the goal for you to feel better and not have to be reaching for
Gwenevere Abriel: The substances. I'm not going to get in. You're not going to hear me telling you. Hey, quit marijuana. You're not going to hear me that, but you're going to know through working with me that the overarching philosophy my bias, if you will, is that you're enough
Gwenevere Abriel: You weren't born needing to have weed. You weren't born meeting to have fentanyl in burka sets you have your own ability inside of you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To heal itself to feel good but likely given some of the story you told me when I first met you. You've been robbed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of some opportunities of appropriate healthy developmental milestones and you have had to compensate deeply for missed opportunities.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I am very sorry for that. And I remember listening to your stories and there was no time for me to sort of hold that with you hold that space and let you know how sorry
Gwenevere Abriel: I am that you had to have so much time right in those in those those schools, those kind of settings. They're not very nurturing it's it's rare when we run across someone who, you know, really sees us and loves us and cares about us.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're just a number. We're just writing for not really known
Gwenevere Abriel: So this may feel really different in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: But give yourself a chance. The first 30 days, it might feel kind of forced like show for this stupid thing. That's okay. I have faith. I'll hold the faith for us that you'll recognize yourself in here, you'll say, got a glimpse. I'm excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe I can have access to happy like the rest of the world looks like everybody looks like like that. How did they do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, we can create that space together.
Gwenevere Abriel: So one of the first things I'm going to ask is,
That
Gwenevere Abriel: You find a place and it doesn't mean it all has to happen today maybe it'll take a week or two weeks or something. But, see if you can find a place in this setting where you are now in your home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Find some stack of books on a toaster. I don't care where you put me but you want to put me down so that you and I can have what would be sort of this social medicine where we could look at each other, I'd I because I
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want to be moving. Oh, nice. Thank you. That's really cool. Very cool. All right. Yeah. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've been thinking about you and wondering
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, what are his current expectations. What does he really want from this program. I'm wondering if it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Changing
Gwenevere Abriel: As you're sitting in group or if maybe the context of your life is still so unsettled, and so on, supportive that you can't quite dive into really embracing what recovery is
Gwenevere Abriel: Or maybe you're feeling cynical like this is just like any other program. They don't really give a shit. And I'm just trying to make money and then wondering what you've been thinking about
Jay: I like the program. It's the only one that I was able to find to help me get on Suboxone and that single handedly has helped me
Jay: They will bring the heroin in the middle.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's pretty cool stuff isn't it, that buprenorphine.
Jay: When
Jay: I got up in November. I spent all of November, December in January, trying to find the program and I couldn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Really yeah Sometimes I'm hearing people that they're able to find them because it is challenging because this is this piece where you have to actually take a look at behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: What what is my, what am I, beliefs, where is my thinking not productive like it's asked a lot of people. It's not just taking another pill, where I was taking this other pill.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's, it's starting to really do some healing and it is asking a lot. So I would just invite you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Have just enough of an open mind for it, at least during these 30 days to kind of get to know me and you get to see whether this is something you can do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just show up for the appointments. It is month weekly group and individual therapy for 30 days it's intense, not gonna lie.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I think you're gonna like it. I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO RECOGNIZE YOURSELF IN HERE. Like, oh yeah, I am this good guy. I am I like it. Okay, I'm not here to make funny. I'm not here to insult you. We're going to focus on the things that you want to focus on. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's start there. First of all, let me tell you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just took in a lot of new information with with grace. You really did.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, that was new. It's like I got 15 minutes I gotta get to work. You know, you're my way and you just heard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, I gotta be here for 45 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you handled that really elegantly. Thank you for that. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So that said, let's go take a peek. Let's go see what when we first met, what you identify are some of the things that you wanted to work on, because maybe they're different because when I first meet people. They're like, hey yeah just getting my subs get on. I remember, I remember
Gwenevere Abriel: I got a sense of humor. I know what's up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, so let me just get in there for just a second.
Second here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know it's just and rights not GA. Okay, so I gotta try and keep remembering that because in the record. It's not J.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm.
Like it so far about it. W. Well, I don't like that either.
Got here.
What just Justin.
When
Gwenevere Abriel: What's your last name is William center some
Williams.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll take that and see what happens.
They'll do
Jay: This
Gwenevere Abriel: And this this accent that you have what, where's that come from that like a new mexico accent.
Jay: Yeah, from Clovis, New Mexico.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is okay yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Got one. I'll tell you what.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do I yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: I see some other people from Clovis Miles have a strong accent like you got strong one.
Jay: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're like, I'll take that as a compliment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dude, the heck are you
Jay: Hello.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't get it. Well, yeah. We have wi LL. Okay. Oh, there we go. Is it middle name, Alan.
Jay: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Think you got a drug screen into
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So yeah, you're positive for the for the THC and for the buprenorphine. Okay, so your doctors are saying
Gwenevere Abriel: can't smoke weed all day.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can make your mama.
Jay: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: That
Gwenevere Abriel: They can tell you that
If my liver
Jay: And you got a
Jay: Treatment for it, you get
Jay: I got to see a specialist next month on April.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I've got some people that are
Gwenevere Abriel: Noticing there you have an allergy and allergic reaction that's a side effect of smoking way too much is the nausea, vomiting, yeah.
Jay: We helped my stomach.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, what's today. Today is the fourth
Jay: Is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow. Merry Christmas.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yes. Years. Moving right along right day okay let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, we've got
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see, say, he said to me, I want to keep my anxiety in check.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to stay sober and this isn't this looks like a fraction of the thought and the right yeah I don't know what that means so that we get a transcriptionist and she may have taken a piece of what you said. Let's see if we can fix that. So stay sober and
Jay: Good. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do the right thing. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thing we need thing. Alright, so what is the thing we're talking about just
Jay: You know, when nobody's looking, I need to stop thinking I can get high and
Jay: Yeah, you know, try to get high under my peels nose or
Jay: Criminal thinking, wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you guys could have been in custody. Some of you did some groups and you might notice in group all phrase something a particular way. It will be very similar to
Gwenevere Abriel: The criminal logic thinking. So I believe I've been listening to something else that spend a decent amount of time and custody and
Gwenevere Abriel: Like what you just said that criminal thinking, I call it something else you'll hear it in group. I call it the voice of addiction.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll pull apart that because it doesn't say it's just a slick just a seductive just as conniving and smarter than me. So you're going to get right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the problem. Right. It is smart really smart. He will find a way around that drug screen, it will find a way around, they'll come up with lots of excuses to really smart. And that's the tricky bit but that's over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then there's you the authentic self. So you're going to end group and throughout you'll hear me say, Now recently how loud has that voice then
Gwenevere Abriel: Hasn't been the dominant voice. It's making your decisions for you about who to talk to, who to show your feelings to buy, whether you're going to eat right do right you know
Gwenevere Abriel: High itself. Something omit something lie, steal this is right, you might call it. So now in here. You'll be thinking, okay, so she's talking about like the attic. But then there's you
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to talk to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so there'll be times when I may not hear you. I might be hearing when I think is the guy that's kind of slick, it's going to run. He's going to run a test the limits with me to be like, you know, I gotta be out in 14
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: I am going to be keeping my arrow for you. The one that might risk vulnerability
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, over time, you might see I'm trustworthy that you can show that underbelly stuff. The
Gwenevere Abriel: stuff for you don't have to be tough, you don't. You don't have to front.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I'll earn that and I know that takes time and I'm open to it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now, let me see how much you've already addressed, what I would call that first line of defense around a recovery program. Let's just touch very quickly on
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you mentioned you're already kind of trying to stay under the radar with your PO and working a bit of a game. You know, I got a time. And how long does it stay in my system and about your kind of crunching the numbers.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you
Gwenevere Abriel: changed any of the people.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you're hanging with any of the connects. I didn't know if you were more of a dealer or consumer. Are you still selling and hoping. Oh, I don't, I can sell, but I won't have to use it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, okay, so how about on the cell phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some people leave town like they just leave Clovis, I gotta go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some people change their number. Some people texts there connects or Texans they don't even contact me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't glass me with Lizzie, you got a new supply something just lose my number because I'm going to take it. I'm going to be pissed and like you don't give a crap about me.
Gwenevere Abriel: So lose my number and they block the ones all the people change numbers all the time, at least for blocking those numbers. So where do you fall in that protecting your recovery. Where do you fall
Jay: I just let people know upfront that I could get high. And I just, I don't trust people. It's hard for me to trust people so
Jay: It's not hard for me to avoid them. It's just I get that thought in my head and
Jay: No, I want to go get high. I get that. It is OK. OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fine. Okay, and we're going to, we will spend time on writing that down. And it's, it's, it's, I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is early, it's still really, really, really early recovery for you. So we're talking about you were able to tell some people, there's some people that you didn't tell where you keeping that door open. Just a little
Jay: I I don't talk to. I haven't talked to him since I've been out. So I just think it best to leave it on
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but the doors open because didn't change your phone number or you
Gwenevere Abriel: Didn't
Gwenevere Abriel: You did change it over. Okay. Is there number in that cell phone. No. Okay, so that's a good thing. That's a good one. You should be getting fewer people contacting you randomly where you're going to have to challenge yourself with temptation. That's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how often do you get
Gwenevere Abriel: texts from people that are trying to offer you.
Jay: Oh, I got one. Just last night.
Gwenevere Abriel: I kind of that guy gets remember
Jay: Facebook Messenger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Really
Jay: Yeah, it wasn't on the phone. It was on messenger. I got everybody on there.
Okay, so
Jay: That's just one of those spots where I told him I'm not using no more.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe doing a little bit of protection in there too. And maybe we can do, if you wanted to just to see how it felt. Do a little sabbatical from Facebook for a while.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes that influence coming from there isn't the greatest anyway we can kind of change the relationship we have with with that social media.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're being candid with me and saying that it's coming in right it's going to, it comes from all kinds of places because like I said, they're very smart.
Gwenevere Abriel: They want they want money right
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a business plan. Yeah.
You're a customer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's talk a little bit about the edge. Right. So let's talk about in real time, day to day for you will just take, let's just take a little bit that you've been awake today. Just take the hours that you've had consciousness won't even talk about dream life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: Been awake.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many times has it crossed your mind.
Jay: Once or twice. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you remember as soon as you're conscious, sometimes you know we're conscious and our eyes aren't even open
Gwenevere Abriel: Didn't happen that fast.
Jay: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Soon as the way to remember what the thought was
Jay: Oh, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you don't. Okay.
Jay: It wasn't that
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but if you remember that it happens that fast. As soon as you wake up.
Jay: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what did you do, because you did stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh you smoked a cigarette.
Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you did something else. You had to remember something
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you remember
Jay: That I need to stay clean
Gwenevere Abriel: And that need
Gwenevere Abriel: Who's holding you accountable to that. Why do you need to stay clean
Jay: Oh window back and praising
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's a what I would call right a negative reinforcer out here looming like me to have you there to version again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so that P O is actually a positive thing for you that that threat is keeping you on point, even as early as in the morning. So, so he's an asset actually having that that there is a positive thing.
Jay: That threat. Now, I tried filling out that release of information again and
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah I there's something in there I saw yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to take a look at it right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Documents. Yeah, I don't know what happened before I was looking and look at them. So I'm gonna show you what I'm looking at.
See
Jay: My P ocean be back in a couple days because I got court coming up.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you are literally, this is your first individual therapy appointment with me. This is your first one you did a bio psychosocial and you're you are meeting with me just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: For the first one. Okay, so I do not know the relationship with Weston puzzle. I don't know who he is. He's just a random name on a piece of paper for me because it doesn't show the relationship
Gwenevere Abriel: That's why I asked you before. If you happen to have a picture of his business card.
Jay: Yeah, I didn't have one
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have anything where do
Gwenevere Abriel: I think that like an email with it proper email return something to sort of say, Who is this guy. I don't know this guy.
Jay: Let me see.
Jay: This right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna blow up my picture. Let me see, make it bigger, bigger, bigger alright so mental health resources information. Okay, contact person but. Both. Both. Both. Case Manager. Okay, so I ok and probation. Okay, that's you, substance abuse, for mass amphetamine. Okay, um, hold on just a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you take a snap of that and send it to
Gwenevere Abriel: All you can Sunday, where you want to. It's YOUR INFORMATION, but either through email to however you were kind of communicating we ever communicating via email and Breitbart we ever going doing an email exchange and
Jay: Um, I got a couple emails in their
Jay: Text if you want
Jay: Yeah, you can.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do that. I'm also mines really easy my emails easy. I think it's easy, it's Gabriel like Peter Gabriel, you know,
Jay: They kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: My first initial and my last name so Gabriel GA be are at bright heart health.com all one word, minus the you know the common
Gwenevere Abriel: So bright heart health. COM AND YOU CAN SEND THAT THERE. And what I can do is I can upload it because I kind of need to know the relationship. And so that really kind of helps now.
Gwenevere Abriel: When his court.
Jay: Oh,
Jay: God, I don't know the exact dates. I know I got one on
Gwenevere Abriel: Need to know that.
Jay: I got one coming up this next week on
Jay: The 14th. In the 16th, I believe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what are you doing on the 12th in there is compliance is your PR gonna say what do you follow through with with Reba was the purpose of that meeting that hearing
Jay: On that's a jury jury docket call and then jury selection and jury trial my probation violations, not to April and my P O has my back.
Jay: You know, they've been playing
Jay: This, the first time I've ever given a queen you raise
Gwenevere Abriel: And they're not clean. Well, we're just gonna, but I know what you're saying we want. We're not going to get into nuances, but I get it. So the amphetamine and I've heard you in group to you. I really identify is that that's the one that's your drug of choice, right.
Jay: Well, I started using that at 13 I didn't start using heroin until I went to prison. Yeah, but that's both them together just destroyed lives.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how is I get concerned with people when they stopped using amphetamine I get really worried about whether depression is setting in and
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to kind of check in and see, is it getting to the point where you're having any thoughts of wanting to hurt yourself. Is it getting that bad.
Jay: No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Just want to ask. I'll
Jay: Pass, but not now. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are you sort of tell me a typical day you've been telling me okay yes I wake up, and yes, that that thought comes in. I think I can go to prison you remembering that and then you go and you do something with you smoke a cigarette. Right. There's this tactile it's
Orange.
Jay: And I've been real see it too.
Jay: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
What was I talking about
Gwenevere Abriel: A typical day.
Typically
Jay: What is it like
Jay: A wake up smoke cigarette usually smoke a joint. Um, I'll try to start slamming some water. Normally I get sick about after my procedure, it
Jay: I'll start throwing up and
Jay: Laughter That Are you ready, and I'll take care of all my morning appointments and then a lot of work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what morning appointments
Jay: Well, I got, I got to see my psychiatrist.
Jay: That want to move
Jay: I got to see you guys. Every week, I have physical therapy twice a week.
Jay: See I have other group counseling that I'm supposed to be going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Is nothing in conflict. So tell me about the group counseling what goes on in there.
Jay: Is just substance abuse counseling.
Jay: Just
Jay: Have you said voluntary. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, whereas in health
Jay: Mental health resources.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I noticed that that document indicates an I. O. P.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're not in an IoT right now you are in
Jay: Doing. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you did that level of care already
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Alright, so this is sort of the lower level. But if you're also saying the somehow which baffles me
Gwenevere Abriel: You didn't get therapy didn't get therapy. What did they do just talking to you about brain science and what, what did you learn from it.
Jay: Basically they tell me all my problems and I'm supposed to be okay with it. That's how I feel about it.
Jay: They're quick to throw medications or something to fix it, but they're not quick to try to help you figure out alternative routes to acting by interacting
Jay: Yeah, you know what I mean, you know, help me remember that stuff. It just give me meds and China Medicaid. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So put me back on a shelf and let's let's get into it. Then I feel like, and then I want you to at least walk away today with the one
Gwenevere Abriel: Skill. That is because you just mentioned the word
Gwenevere Abriel: mentioned the word violence. But even if you hadn't. This is the number one skill that when people leave treatment or you'll hear him a group, they'll say,
Gwenevere Abriel: First I did this and I go, I can't believe that it works so well or the like, yeah, I forgot about all that other fancy stuff. You told me
Gwenevere Abriel: I do this one thing
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to teach it to you right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me kind of look at your position when I may ask you at some point to I'm unfortunate I'm standing. So I have sort of this really open sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Rib cage and and I can do it really easy. But when we actually do the rehearsal of this skill I might ask you to lean back a little bit. But for now, I'm just going to do some education. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to talk about the neat thing that sciences able to explain that philosophy and a lot of religions even have been doing for centuries.
Gwenevere Abriel: They've been breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've been breathing, but you may not have been doing
Gwenevere Abriel: What the parasympathetic nervous system is set up to do for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we have two systems, right, we have the sympathetic that's fight that when you don't have to think about. I need to knock this guy out or I need to need to pull my arms up to protect my core you do it unconsciously like that she's BAM that's fight or flight I fam. Well, it's fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or its flight but those thoughts. The sympathetic nervous system and it's going to act automatically and it's kept you alive. I'm sure in many cases.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if it's in her personal we get defensive. Same thing, angry, it has kept you alive. It is kept you safe. And I don't want that to leave. I want that to always be there and it will because didn't go anywhere. Okay, keeps us safe on the downside is that all of the blood
Gwenevere Abriel: Goes to our large muscle groups.
Gwenevere Abriel: Our thighs are biceps, your triceps. Because if we're gonna fight we needed their hands get cold and guess what blood is not appear in our executive functioning in the frontal lobe right up here. The one that thinks things through.
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't need to be there. You don't need to be analyzing the possible outcome of giving this man black I would be. You don't need to you, you're just in self preservation. So we don't need the blood there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that isn't it because now you're not in custody and if you're starting to change the people you're hanging out with we don't
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't really need that we need a more refined response to a perceived threat and typically are threats are now in her personal, most of them right. You just like you you you coming at me right
Gwenevere Abriel: What is that, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not much of a solid game. I just, but I try
Gwenevere Abriel: But I get it though I've because a lot of the people I'm working with, you know, years and years of incarceration just
Gwenevere Abriel: 20 years. Sometimes, I mean, you guys are like, how do you expect me live in the community one new skill at a time. That's how okay
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is a great one. I love it, I do it all the time, all my clients do it and you get to have it too. So first, I'm giving you the science and I will, I will get to it here, I promise.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here we go. What I'm going to be asking you to do is I'm going to call it the bagel break this is here's the science behind this. You don't have to believe it. You can think it's hocus pocus. And it's still going to work. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm the Vegas nerve is. It's called the wandering nerve because it attaches to our facial, facial muscles to our eyes to this little loose bone in our ear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Larynx fairing heart, lungs, gut and all those guts below our diet from, you know, the diaphragm cuts your body in the middle. Right. Okay. Really important. That's the big piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what happens when and I'll be teaching how to do it. I'll be teaching you belly breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Called lots of different names, but I like the word belly, because you'll remember that the belly is the most important part. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: What happens is when we do this particular kind of breathing. It's smashes that diaphragm down. And remember, I was telling me that that Vegas nerve is wrapped around the the spleen, the kidney.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, it's liver it's it's wrapped around it like so when I breathe this belly breath down like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: It sends a signal a fair. Currently, which means up to the brain and the brain is like this. What are you coming at me, you know, we're in a threat response. I'll fail. I'm being abandoned I'm being rejected all threat response unconscious, but we're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: We might verbally be aggressive or we might respond on ethics. So this, this is happening up here at the top. We're in threat response we are
Gwenevere Abriel: Probably angry underneath that we're afraid, but let's just go with anger, we're probably aware of anger. But guess what happens with the bagel break the signal comes up this way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Think it's in complete contradiction to this thought which is I'm in danger is in contradiction. This one that breath. You know what, it just said.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we're breathing into our belly likes out. Everything's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because nobody breeze like we're about to get in a fight. You can't, right, you're not gonna be like
Gwenevere Abriel: No, you're gonna be
Gwenevere Abriel: Up here, short and tight right
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's so cool. It's incomplete opposite to the threat response. So guess what we keep doing it. We keep doing this belly breathing, which I'm going to teach shortly. And then guess what the brands like
Gwenevere Abriel: I guess I guess there's really no one here with a knife, a gun. There's no lion no pair of bear. There's really actually no danger. It's just, I'm perceiving threat. No, wait, my body's. Okay. Oh, wait a minute. There is no threat. Oh my gosh, I'm in a relaxed body.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what we want. You get to have control over that mind of yours that just automatically runs just instantaneously to this perceived threat. We can now.
Gwenevere Abriel: With our own body. We can regulate and that's exciting.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to teach you a very structured way to do it. If you forget all of the structure. Let's say you forget the four count.
Gwenevere Abriel: Breathing in for four seconds and holding for four seconds and exhaling out for four seconds and holding for four seconds. Let's say you forget all about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But what you remember is
See if I can see
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch, watch my shoulders. I'm going to do it the old way.
Gwenevere Abriel: See my shoulders go up. That's the way you do it now Nomar not when we're doing belly breathing, not when you want to do the big ol break and say, Okay, I need to chill.
Gwenevere Abriel: I need to. I need to really be thinking this through what you're going to end up doing. And I'm just going to tell you this one piece that we're going to teach the whole thing is I'm going to see my hands go out and in.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I inhale, I'm literally as if expanding a balloon. It's so weird to breathe in.
Gwenevere Abriel: And pop up that balloon, which means my stomach's going to expand. I'm actually breathing in through my nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the air South staying up at the top, it's going down low, which expands, my stomach out my hands come out a little. They don't come out much and it might feel really awkward and bizarre because we don't do it very often, unless you're like a yogi or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the shoulders. Don't move. That's how you're going to know shoulders and are going to move. So just for now just do the first piece I want you to put your hands on your stomach. First, get all the air out. Just get it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then in through the nose, and I want you to put all that air of the bottom of the long and your stomach is going to push out because you will have filled it with their did you feel how weird it feels kind of like, awkward. Am I right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah not natural. Don't forget to inhale keep we're not doing their says, I'm just using that part. Don't forget to breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I wanted you because some people. That's where we spend like 1020 times because it's so foreign and bizarre. We have to kind of work that but you look like you got it like you saw the hands go out
Gwenevere Abriel: And I noticed that your shoulders aren't going up and down. So that says to me, you're getting it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's exciting. So I noticed that she sat back a little bit. That's fantastic. I'm just going to run through different different for now. Keep it, you can do the hands on the belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can put down your size for a second. But I just want to run through a couple of things you could do the ever want to call it the lazy boy, it's just a lazy boy couch traipse
Jay: Always do
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay, that's great for you. So you're going to be there. Anyway, look what it does, it expands that rib cage makes it all possible. That's a great way to get that error going down in there. Another one is Superman.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right hands around your sides and another one is you tuck your hands under your size. So that's going to get, get that rib cage open. So lots of different ways to kind of remind okay I'm doing this with intention.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to really open up this this rib cage and get some room in there to get that error, not just at the top because that keeps reinforcing. Oh yeah, we gotta breathe, nice and short fast because we're in trouble.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check this body. So we want to send a contradictory message saying we're okay. We're in a relaxed body, everything's okay there's no danger, no perceived threat. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's the instruction. So we got that breathing. I think you, you're going to be able to do that. So here's the full instruction just instruction, you decide to go along, that's up to you. All I'm doing is just teaching
Gwenevere Abriel: So you see my little screen. Right. It's kind of convenient for me. So it's going to be mindfully, which means we can feel the cool air or warm air coming in.
Jay: Through our you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know maybe the wiggle on her nose hair or something. So we're going to be paying attention to it. It'll be an inhale through the nose for for it'll be for, for, for, for every performer.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we'll hold for 321 and then we'll sell out
Gwenevere Abriel: And we'll hold 321
Hold 321
Gwenevere Abriel: And yeah, see. So I don't think this is going to be difficult for you. I think you're taking instruction, really, really well. So we're going to go through it a few times together. You literally were doing it as I was instructing for the first time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think this is going to be readily available to you for you. Remember, you can do it on the wrong count. You could even inhale the whole time through your nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: You could inhale the whole time through your mouth, your shoulders could either be moving, but the one thing you can't compromise on is what
Gwenevere Abriel: Bam. That's why I'm not calling it box breathing anymore because I was because here's the box.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not calling a diet for mounting breathing calling a belly breathing, because maybe now everyone will remember that little Buddha belly has got to happen that balloon.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because that's, that's when I know that long. It is expanding at the bottom. So we're going to do a few together. But first I want to, I want you to feel in real time, the efficacy of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now I want you to pull into what's called a working memory right now you're probably focused on me, you're maybe a little curious and
Gwenevere Abriel: And your focus right here in this moment new information is coming out to you, but just for a second. I want you to pull up into a memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not 100% distressing. Just a little one, one that's a little like upsetting not 100% maybe at a 50% if it were zero to 101 one that kind of pisses you off or scares you or makes you sad. Just a little one. Do you have it in your mind right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and does your body know that you're having that thought. Is it reacting where
Jay: My back. Oh, you're back. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. We'll take care of that back. Make sure you're paying attention to it. So, stretch it out, sit, sit. A place where you're really honoring now. Okay. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Register. That's the soma, you're going to hear me out times a lot of talk about where you feeling it in the body. What's the somatic response. You're going to hear me using those words because I care about body.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, the mind, the soul whole deal. I care about. It's all we're all connected. So I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Told that they're right. You, you have this image of something negative in your mind and your body registered it right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and now let's do this. Breathing together. So let's get all your air out. I'm going to watch you get it all out while you're out good. And now let's inhale through your nose for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale
Hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it out for 321 inhale in.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold it for 321 exhale all that out nice fat belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 inhale through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 feel it come out of your mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 in health, the nose, big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or 321 excellent all outside xxx out, you know, slap, slap, slap, slap, slap, slap, slap, slap hold 321 in half.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Really even make that one even five seconds really let it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Good, good, good, good, good, and hold it for 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's hold it there for 321 excellent all out letters, you can
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to do the next one in Hell on your own.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then counting inside your head.
Gwenevere Abriel: Inhale. And this time, close your eyes and just do it on your own. You don't need my, there we go. You got it.
You're ready, let it all out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Forget to hold that air out with no air and the lung for a few seconds. Even if you can do it for two. That's just great.
Gwenevere Abriel: And last one. Good. And let's come back to this moment where we're interacting in the telehealth here. No one asked you what was that like for you. What did you notice about your mind and how's your back.
Jay: I noticed it took my mind away from it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It took your mind away from it the it is what
Jay: Brought
Gwenevere Abriel: You back and that image memory. I asked you to think of something distressing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, did this take your total concentration to do
Gwenevere Abriel: This. It's hard. It's hard to do. So there's two things you just found in found down in real time and I didn't explain it up front. You did two things you did to biological things
Gwenevere Abriel: That you don't have to believe in psychology and psychobabble you'll have to believe in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Vegas nerve ACTIVATED BECAUSE YOU DID THE BELLY breath. And this is actually did kind of three things.
Gwenevere Abriel: One of them is it. You did something new, the brain loves new, it's like, Oh, I never seen that before. It wants to
Gwenevere Abriel: Completely zero in on you get a new game, you get a new person, you got a new movie and like I'm you're totally fixated on it brain loves that stuff, and you did something where you were learning something new. We're literally trying to get it right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it took all of your focus
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it took your focus off of this other because it's a neural network. This stuff that's around back ache and whatever that image was that you pulled up and you didn't even share it with me. I didn't tell you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Spill the beans, like, tell me a dramatic story now didn't have to. You took care of yourself right then.
Gwenevere Abriel: You brought it up into your working memory and instead of focusing on that neural network and has some association with back thing. You went
Gwenevere Abriel: And you focus on something new and you were not in the same neural network in your brain. And you weren't thinking you weren't aware of this stuff. You did two things you worked
Gwenevere Abriel: Top down intervention which is cognitive down which by distracting, your brain and doing something new and difficult and you really did it with great fidelity, you really tried to do it exactly as you're instructing which takes concentration not willy nilly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you did an intervention which is called bottom up, which means reducing the body to tell the brain to do something.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have access to that for the rest of your life you have access to it. The second that consciousness hits you in the morning and I invite you to do it if you can put 20 seconds between an automatic action. Fantastic. It's a win. Okay, between you having a stimulus.
Gwenevere Abriel: And response if we can get a little bit of time in their great that breathing can give that to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone pisses you off. You do this breathing. I'm going to remember consequence.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm going to remember this fancy way that when you're taught me and group about how to talk to someone. I'm remember that fancy things she taught can't remember it when I'm popping off on someone writes can
Gwenevere Abriel: You got a skill that I wish all of you had when you were children. I wish you had it when you were adolescence. I wish you had it your whole life, but it's yours now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I recommend you do it when you wake up sometime throughout the day, at least three times a day, right before you go to bed.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the reason I want you to do it is because the more you do it, the more tissue because that's what's going on. It's actual tissue growth in your brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're getting more neural connections in there and you might remember it because practice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right means you might actually remember doing it under a stressful situation. Oh, I don't want to smoke. Oh, I don't want to do this other thing I want to feel good. How do I take care of myself. I'm gonna do this breathing. Okay, let's let's
Gwenevere Abriel: shift gears for a second and focus on scheduling. Our next appointment. Okay.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just timing me just take a look
I don't know that I have it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um I yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Home. Did you tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch.
Jay: On Mondays.
Gwenevere Abriel: At nine or one
Gwenevere Abriel: Nine. Okay, so you have Dr. Solomon. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, how would you feel just for this one week next week meeting at seven. On March 13 I'm going to keep my eye out for something later for you like at eight. If you like those better and I've done it kind of get ahead of it before they get booked up.
Jay: But just over time.
7am
Jay: Seven.
Yes, sir.
Gwenevere Abriel: And all
Gwenevere Abriel: A text, the day before God.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll do my best to do that for you. And all you have to do is just say, Yeah, I'll be there. Okay.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I sometimes I forget because I'm human. I'm I've been doing this for these reminders for about a year and it works best for everybody seems to help people stay on on task, but it's not a requirement. I just do it because it seems to work for everybody.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're good. So let's review what our current plan is current plan is next appointment is Monday at nine for group and then I'll see you just like this. On March 13 at seven 8am.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I, I believe.
Jay: Sorry. Okay. Oh.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: See I do see
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you taking selfies or anything for the nasza
Jay: It. Don't worry.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna let you go. Jay, I'm gonna let you take care of yourself. Okay.
Jay: All right. Thank you.